Module: ft991utility.py

Introduction
------------
The ft991 utility is an interactive tool for backing up and restoring both
the memory settings and menu settings of the Yaesu FT991 transceiver.
Individual memory locations store information about frequency, repeater
offset, signaling, tags, modulation, and clarifier.  Menu settings store
configuration information about current menu options and parameters.  The
utility also has a pass through mode for sending CAT commands directly to
the transceiver.  This feature is useful for future code development and
debugging.

The ft991.py module encapsulates the FT991 CAT commands and handles low
level serial communication to and from the FT991 usb port.  CAT commands
are encapsulated according to object oriented methodology, that is, 'set'
to send parameters and settings to the FT991, and 'get' to receive status
information back from the FT991. Additionally ft991.py contains helper
functions for parsing data read from backup files. The 'set' functions
also handle formatting of CAT commands and their associated parameters,
while 'get' functions handle parsing of data returned from CAT commands
that return status information.

Notes
-----
1. The files ft991utility.py and ft991.py should be downloaded from the
   github repository and placed in the same folder.  At the root level
   of the fractalxoas/ham repository, click on 'Clone or download'.
   Experienced github users may choose to clone the repository, otherwise
   select 'Download ZIP'.
2. To run the utility, open a terminal session in directory containing
   the ft991utility.py and ft991.py files.  Then simply type the utility
   file name after the command line prompt, e.g.,
       ~$ ./ft991utility.py
   If necessary, change the permissions on ft991utility.py to allow the file
   to be run as an executable.  To change the permissions run the command
       chmod +x ft991utility.py2.
3. Windows users will need to have the python 2.7 framework installed.
   Probably, the easiest way to get the framework is to install the
   Windows Subsystem for Linux Ubuntu platform.  Note that the utility
   has not been tested on Windows and the developer makes no guarentees.
4. While it is possible to run the utility completely from the command
   line using options, beginning users are encouraged to use the
   interactive mode.  To use the interactive mode simply type the file
   name of the utility with no command line arguments, e.g.,
           ./ft991utility.py
5. The utility saves memory settings in a comma-delimited file that
   can be imported using a spreadsheet application for ease in viewing
   and editing.  A LibreOffice Calc template 'ft991_memory_settings.ots'
   has been provided to facilitate creating a spreadsheet to upload memory
   settings to the FT991.
6. The verbose mode, available both as a command line option and in
   interactive mode, echos raw commands sent to the FT991, as well as
   raw status returned by the FT991.  This feature is useful for development
   and debugging purposes.
7. If you already have repeater frequencies and such programmed
   in memory, you should first run the 'bm' command in interactive mode
   to back up your current memory settings.  Unless you change the default
   file name, this file should appear in your current working directory as
   'ft991mem.csv'.  Change this file name to something else such as
   'ft991mem_todaysDate.csv' so that you can restore from this file at a
   later date if necessary.
8. By the same token you should immediately back up your menu settings using
   the 'bu' command in interactive mode.  The default file name is
   'ft991menu.cfg'.  Likewise change this file name to something else.
9. The example file 'example.csv' shows how a memory settings file should
   appear.  To load these settings into your FT991, run the 'rm' command in
   interactive mode.  When prompted to enter a file name type 'example.csv'. 
   For example,
       Enter file name or <CR> for default: example.csv
10. Backup and restore of split frequency memory settings is not yet implemented.
    The 'Tx Frequency' and 'Offset' columns in the memory settings file should
    be left blank.
11. Please do not edit the menu settings file unless you absolutely know
    what you are doing.  There should rarely be a need to edit this file.
    Menu changes should be made on the FT991, itself, and then backed up.

Email bug reports and comments to: fractal@intravisions.com

